---
title: "PEB Walk and API hashing for Malware Analysis - Part 1"
tags: 
- Malware
---

Hello world! It's July and this is another blog post on malware analysis. I came across with an idea to write this blog since I felt like beginner in the Malware analysis field should understand this topic thoroughly as this technique commonly used by the modern malwares.

The reason of the malware author implements this technique are fairly simple. First, to avoid straightforward inspection of API function calls in the Import Address Table (IAT) by analysts which makes it harder for analysts to identify and guess the malware's behavior based on the imports functions. Second, to makes the sample difficult for analysts to quickly identify which API functions it is calling while reversing the malware sample. Third, shellcode often used this PEB walk to reconstruct import table and then resolve Windows API.

Before we jump too deep. This is long short story what it does:
1. PEB walks are commonly used to locate modules (typically DLLs like `ntdll.dll` or `kernel32.dll`) within the currently running process.
2. API hashing are uses to dynamically resolve ("recover") WinAPI calls by comparing pre-computed hashes with the hashes of APIs during runtime.

As a result, during your static analysis of the IAT, WinAPI calls and DLL filenames aren't directly visible. Meaning you have no clue what the sample does based on the WinAPI calls and DLL filenames provided.

We're going to cover PEB walk in this first part of the blog series instead of explaining both PEB walks and API hashing, to avoid a longer blog post.
